# Getting Started With BCore

## Contents
1. [What is BCore? Who developed it? Why?](#1)
2. [Downloading and installing BCore](#2)
3. [Configuring BCore installs](#3)
4. Running StandAlone
5. Running in Client-Server mode
6. Have ideas for improvement? Here's what to do

## <a name="1"></a>1. What is BCore? Who developed it? Why?
BCore was developed by me (Balaji Sriram) starting around 2014. All that time, all my behavior experiments were performed using custom code written in MatLab ([maustrix](https://github.com/balajisriram/maustrix)). That code base was in itself an adaptation of work done with the [Reinagel Lab](http://www.ratrix.org/). BCore wasn't deployed until I moved to Biogen, where Matlab licenses cost an arm, a leg and your first born. **BCore aims to be a python implementation of the earlier MatLab codebase**. Many of the underlying concepts were derived form `maustrix`. 
### BCore: goals and approaches
BCore aims to be a Learning Management System to train rodents(primarily), and other organisms on a variety of tasks. While the original purpose was to train rodents on a visual discrimination task, BCore has since been used for auditory discrimination, classical conditioning and other training paradigms that may be of interest. The major requirement in designing BCore is to ensure *minimal user interaction in the day-to-day running of subjects*. 
The typical experimental workflow is as follows:

1. Decide the series of steps required to train subjects from completely naive to expert. A typical series is as follows:
    * Train subjects to receive reward for specific responses. e.g. Licking at reward port provides water.
    * Remove the typical biases usually present in responses. e.g. Animal always licks one of the ports.
    * Introduce an association between specific external stimuli (currently visual or auditory) and rewards at specific ports. Typically the simplest possible stimulus is introduced. e.g. high-cotrast gratings tilted towards the rewarded port
    * Shape the subjects stimlus-response association by providing increasingly harder stimuli (e.g. stimulus contrast and duration are lowered and/or the orientation becomes less tilted) or constraining the response epoch (e.g. responses beyond a time limit is not rewarded) until the subject is performing the correct set of trials required for the experiment at hand
    * Collect the responses to trials where the difficulty levels are appropriate for the experiment at hand.
2. Code these steps into a `Protocol` which specifies a list of Training Steps where each `TrainingStep` contains
    * a `TrialManager` which specifies the state-flow diagram within a single trial
    * a `SessionManager` which specifies rules according to which trials may be initiated
    * and a `Criterion` which specified rules according to which subjects may transition to another training step within the protocol.
3. Make decisions about whether the subjects will be run stand-alone or ins a client-server mode
    * `StandAloneRun` allows for running the subject within a given computer. However, this presumes that information related to the animal being run is available locally within the computer. This information should include the subject details, the individualized reward/punishment schedule for the subject, and the protocol under which the subject will be run. *This method is ideal for testing out* `Trial Managers` and for experiments where little changes in the day-to-day running of subjects*
    * `Client-Server` mode is a networked paradigm where animals may run on one of many identical clients connected to one server. While clients may choose to store any data that they choose to, the specific information about the subject, its reward/punishment schedule and protocol details are provided on a session-by-session basis by the server. After the session is completed, the trial data are sent to the server which compiles and plots information related to that session.
4. Perform a daily `swap` which includes putting the animal in the behavior box at the beginning and then removing it from the session at the end. Swaps may inclued weighing the animal for health monitoring.

Thus, experimenters specify the training steps and place the animal in the behavior box daily for the duration of the session. Beyond this, no further work is required on the part of the experimenter apart from occasional monitoring of performance and health of the animals. *In our hands, a weekly check of weights, number of trials and performance in tasks is usually adequate monitoring*. To aid in monitoring, plotting funtions have been included that plots the animals performance, motivation levels as well as any other special plots that may aid the experimenter in understanding the performance of the animal, as well as in modifying the protocol for better performance. Further, adaptive reward/punishment schedulers can be designed to automate the modificaiton of motivation of animals to perform the trial better.

## <a name="2"></a>2. Downloading and installing BCore
**Note: Internet connection is required to download and install the relevant packages**

1. Install [miniconda](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html). Miniconda allows for siloing individual python programs so that there is no conflict due to the installation of incompatible libraries for other programs. Once the environment is specified and activated for a given program, no incompatibilities can arise.
2. Open the miniconda command line (in windows) or the terminal (in ubuntu) as appropriate. Test if git is available as a program by typing `git` into the command line. If no errors are found, you have git installed. If not, install git by executing `conda install git` into the command line. Accept any suggested changes to the conda installation by typing `y` when prompted. Verify `git` is installed.
3. Move to an appropriate location within the file structure using the `cd` command. e.g. `cd Documents`(windows) or `cd ~/Documents`(ubuntu). Clone the BCore repository into the directory using `git clone https://github.com/balajisriram/BCore.git`. If you have a different code base forked from the original code base, use the appropriate URL.
4. The conda environment for your architecture (ubuntu/windows) shoud reside within the `Install` folder. You should be able to setup the envoronment by executing `conda env create -f win-env.yaml` (windows) or `conda env create -f ubuntu-env.yaml` (ubuntu) as appropriate.This should take a while as conda downloads the dependencies and installs them. *Note: if you wish to change the environment name, you'll need to edit the relvant yaml file in the field that corresponds to "name"*
5. Activate the environment: `conda activate bcore` or `source activate bcore`

### TLDR:

	# install miniconda and open minconda terminal in windows (or) terminal in linux
	$ conda install --yes git
	$ git clone https://github.com/balajisriram/BCore.git # or whatever fork you have
	$ cd ./BCore/Install
	$ conda env create --file ubuntu-env.yaml --yes # for windows, use the win-env.yaml
	$ source activate bcore # in windows use conda activate bcore


## <a name="3"></a>3. Configuring BCore
Your BCore installation does not work right off the ground. You will need to make some decisions about how to configure the installation to work on your computer. This configuration will

1. Decide whether you will be the BCore installation in `standalone`, `client` or `server` mode.
2. The details you will need to specify depend upon the mode you are running in:
	- If you are running `standalone` or `client`:
        1. you will have to specify the peripherals connected to the rig:display, lickometers, runnometers, valves
        2. you will decide the base directory within which you will store the data. This will create a series of folders
        3. you will provide a rig name for reference
        4. you will provide an ip address that will be forced on the computer in a local network
        5. you will specify how you will interface with the display, lickometers, runnometers, and valves.
        Note: Specifying these values will create config files in the folders that were created. Most of these will have default values which will work fine for most cases. But these are documented if you wish to change them.
    - If you are running `server`:
        1. you will specify the base directory where data will be stored.
        2. you will then have an opportunity to add clients (specified by name and ip address)
        3. finally you will have an opportunity to add subjects (subject id, dob, strain, default data location, extra data location etc.) and associate them with clients
        Note: You do not have to do these addition. Other functions can be used to add them later on.

### TLDR:
        
	# activate bcore in miniconda terminal
	$ cd BCOREPATH
	$ python configure.py

