# Data models and policies for BCore

## Contents
1. [Philosophy of data storage in BCore](#1)
2. [What is stored where](#2)
2. Data model for objects in BCore
	- BServer

	
## <a name="1"></a> Philosophy of data storage in BCore
BCore requires that three separate kinds of data needs to be kept track of:

1. Data that does not change regularly. This includes details about the server, station, animals and assignments. 
2. Data that changes every day, or changes every trial. This includes trial specific information (every trial), information about the number of trials performed by a subject (every day) etc.
3. Data that is of either of the above kind, but cannot be human readable or easily de-serialized as it contains sensitive information. Specifically requires password protection *(not yet implemented)*

BCore prefers data that is easily human readable. This means that the data is serialized as JSON files split into a variety of folders.

## <a name="2"></a> What is stored where?

Configuration of the server requires specifying the `$SERVER_BASE_PATH`. Default `$SERVER_BASE_PATH` is identical to `$BASEDIRECTORY` location and is specified by the function `bcore.get_base_directory()`. Similarly, configuration of the client requires specifying `$CLIENT_BASE_PATH` and standalone requires specifying `$STANDALONE_BASE_PATH`. If not explicitly specified, default will be set to `$BASEDIRECTORY` 

 `$BASEDIRECTORY`>`.bcore` will contain config files about the installation.

### <a name="2-server"></a>On the server 

- Information about the server is stored in `$SERVER_BASE_PATH `>`BCoreData`>`ServerData` in the file `db.server_data`. Changes to server data results in data being backed up in `$SERVER_BASE_PATH `>`BCoreData`>`ServerData`>`backup`.
- Subject specific data will be stored in `$SERVER_BASE_PATH `>`BCoreData`>`SubjectData`. `$SERVER_BASE_PATH `>`BCoreData`>`SubjectData`>`History` contains `<subject-id>.history` which provides a list of all the parameter changes to a given subject and a list of all the sessions run for a given subject. `$SERVER_BASE_PATH `>`BCoreData`>`SubjectData`>`TrialData` contains `<subject-id>.trial_data` which will contain all trial specific data. No attempt will be made to separate out the session data. All data corresponding to a subject will be collated into a single file.
- Station specific data will be stored in `$SERVER_BASE_PATH `>`StationData`. `$SERVER_BASE_PATH `>`StationData`>`<station_id>` will contain `monitor.calib`, `valve.calib`, and `runnometer.calib` files with calibration data for the display, the valves, the runnometers respectively.

### <a name="2-client"></a>On the client

- Subject specific data will be stored in `$CLIENT_BASE_PATH `>`BCoreData`>`SubjectData`. Current trial data will be stored as `<subject_id>.trial_data` in `$CLIENT_BASE_PATH `>`BCoreData`>`SubjectData`. This folder will also contain a `trial_data.history` file that will contain a list of all sessions 
- Station specific data will be stored in `$CLIENT_BASE_PATH `>`BCoreData`>`StationData`. `$CLIENT_BASE_PATH `>`BCoreData`>`StationData`>`<station_id>` will contain `monitor.calib`, `valve.calib`, and `runnometer.calib` files with calibration data for the display, the valves, the runnometers respectively.

### <a name="2-stand-alone"></a>On stand alone

`bcore.bootstrap.stand_alone_run()` acts as a combination of server and client modes. Every unit will have information about the server details and also contain information about the station, the subjects as well sa history files about which animals were run on which days. 

- Information about the server is stored in `$STANDALONE_BASE_PATH `>`BCoreData`>`ServerData` in the file `db.server_data`. Changes to server data results in data being backed up in `$STANDALONE_BASE_PATH `>`BCoreData`>`ServerData`>`backup`.
- Subject specific data will be stored in `$STANDALONE_BASE_PATH `>`BCoreData`>`SubjectData`. `$STANDALONE_BASE_PATH `>`BCoreData`>`SubjectData`>`History` contains `<subject-id>.history` which provides a list of all the parameter changes to a given subject and a list of all the sessions run for a given subject. `$STANDALONE_BASE_PATH `>`BCoreData`>`SubjectData`>`TrialData` contains `<subject-id>.trial_data` which will contain all trial specific data. No attempt will be made to separate out the session data. All data corresponding to a subject will be collated into a single file.
- Station specific data will be stored in `$STANDALONE_BASE_PATH `>`StationData`. `$SERVER_BASE_PATH `>`StationData`>`<station_id>` will contain `monitor.calib`, `valve.calib`, and `runnometer.calib` files with calibration data for the display, the valves, the runnometers respectively.

Okay, so we know here things are stored. Now, how are the data used within the module(s)? Upon starting the program,

- BCore loads empty instances of `BServer`. *Note: all classes are `__init__`ed as empty objects and populated from dictionaries. This is due to the policy of human readability of data*.
- `BServer.load_server()` will look for `$SERVER_BASE_PATH `>`BCoreData`>`ServerData`>`db.server_data`. If found, the data will be loaded [using `json.load()`] and the object will be populated from the values in the dictionary. If not found, will return an empty object. 
- The specific subjects that need to be run at a given time need to be determined (typically specified as heats). Once this is specified, `BServer` will loop through the list of `(station,subject)` assignments and send information to relevant stations. BCore will send as JSON strings
	1. Subject details
	2. Subject trial records
- The station will receive this string and re-create the relevant objects from the data. 